===== PAGE 1 =====


===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
 
A Patriot’s Catechism of the United States 
Constitution 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pastor JD Hall 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dedication 
 
This book is dedicated to my children, who like their 
father, were born free.  
 
To my children, I give you three instructions: Serve your 
country. Honor God. Resist tyrants.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 4 =====
Preface 
 
Years ago, I wrote what – for me – is the best-selling 
book of my life. A Baptist Catechism for Family and 
Home Devotion was a compilation of resources 
designed to teach families doctrine as found in the 
Word of God and articulated by my Confession of Faith, 
the 1689 London Baptist Confession.  
 
That endeavor proved fruitful, as hundreds of churches 
and many thousands of believers around the world are 
still using that simple guide to help educate and 
catechize (teach) their family the Bible.  
 
As a polemicist (one who studies aberrant sub-Christian 
sects and false teachers), I have grown increasingly 
convinced that with proper catechism, full-time 
discernment ministries – like the one I run at Pulpit & 
Pen – would be wholly unnecessary.  
 
I count myself and Pulpit & Pen as one of the very few 
full-time polemics or discernment ministries in the 
world. And yet, I long for the day that churches properly 
catechize their members, thus inoculating them against 
most doctrinal error prevalent in modern churches. 
There is not a single heresy or false teaching that I have 
yet encountered, that cannot be dispelled and even 
preempted by good catechesis, which should ideally be 
accomplished well before a child reaches adulthood.  
 


===== PAGE 5 =====
Catechism, from the Greek κατηχέω, is a method of 
learning that utilizes question-and-answer 
methodology. It is a tested, tried, and true way to teach 
doctrine to believers. If properly grounded in God’s 
word, the vast majority of heretical teachings will 
simply not be able to lead one away.  
 
With that in mind, I have considered the political 
landscape in America that is currently overrun with 
socialism and Marxism, despotism, and a kind of 
modern liberalism that is effectively little more than a 
list of things God hates; the shedding of innocent blood, 
theft of property, and the State’s sanctioning of adultery. 
The Democratic Party’s platform is essentially God’s 
Ten Commandments in reverse.  
 
As I survey the political landscape, which places the 
State itself as God, with abortion made a Holy 
Sacrament, and the gradual enslavement of humanity to 
the governmental gods, the reality sets in that most of 
these ideas would be preempted if our children were 
properly catechized in the United States Constitution.  
 
Our system of government was created with checks and 
balances between its various branches, as taken from 
the division of authorities in the Old Testament as 
demonstrated between prophets, priests, and kings. Our 
Bill of Rights was the product of Protestant Reformed 
thought, as formulated by John Locke and other 
Reformed philosophers. The American nation is not 
founded upon the Bible, but it is founded upon ideas 


===== PAGE 6 =====
that were forged in the Sacred Texts and extrapolated 
by Christian theologians.  
 
While the United States Constitution is not Sacred Writ, 
and should not be included in the canon of 66 Holy 
Books, and was not inspired of the Holy Spirit, it is 
demonstrably one of the greatest works ever penned by 
the hands of men.  
 
Our Constitution is the longest-surviving governmental 
document in the history of the world, and it is currently 
under attack like never before. The time to educate our 
children is now.  
 
I am indebted considerably to the Catechism on the 
Constitution, written by Arthur Stansbury in 1828, for 
use in public schools. I found several points of 
disagreement with Stansbury, which is reflected in the 
catechism and its answers. Because it was written in 
1828, I had to add to the catechism significant portions 
that were made necessary by the United States Civil 
War and subsequent amendments to the Constitution.  
 
I pray that we would all heed the words of Stansbury, 
who wrote in his introduction, “The virtuous citizen is 
the true noble. He who enlightens his 
understanding--controls his passions--feels for his 
country's honor--rejoices in her prosperity--steps 
forth to aid her in the hour of danger--devotes to 
her advancement the fruits of his mind, and 
consecrates to her cause, his time, his property, and 


===== PAGE 7 =====
his noblest powers, such a man is one of God's 
nobility... We have seen such men among us; we 
hope to see many more." 
 
What is at stake for us is nothing less than the loss of 
Western Civilization, the American nation, and the 
freedom of mankind.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 8 =====
INTRODUCTION 
 
How to use this catechism guide is very simple. Like 
with a catechism of the Christian doctrine, take one 
question per week, and rehearse the question and 
answer with your children.  
 
Make sure that not only your children have the answers 
memorized, but that they understand the answers. Take 
time to explain – through additional resources, if 
necessary, what the answers mean.  
 
Should your children understand these answers, they 
will be protected against the vast majority of leftist 
schemes designed to fleece their pockets, steal their 
minds, and enslave their consciences.  
 
Remember that if you do not teach your children, 
someone else will. Some might call the term 
“indoctrination” (which means “to teach doctrine”). 
Those who use the term pejoratively, are probably the 
ones who want to indoctrinate them for you. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


===== PAGE 9 =====
A Patriot’s Catechism of the United States 
Constitution 
 
1.  
Q. In what country do you live? 
A. In the United States of America.  
 
2. 
Q. Why is this country called the United States of 
America? 
A. Because it is made up of a number of States 
which were once separate, but afterwards 
agreed to unite together for specific purposes.  
 
3. 
Q. What is meant by “state?” 
A. By “state” is meant any district or country 
whose people are all under a common 
government. 
 
4. 
Q. Had then the different States which united 
together each a government of its own? 
A. Yes; but they agreed to put themselves all 
under one general or federal government.  
 
5. 
Q. Why did they do this?  
A. To accomplish certain tasks easier than could 
be done alone. 
 
6. 
Q. Is a governmental framework necessary to 
every country?  
A. Certainly; with no governmental framework, 
our property and liberties would be in jeopardy.  
 


===== PAGE 10 =====
7. 
Q. Cannot all the people of a country govern 
themselves? 
A. No. God instituted government to punish the 
wicked and reward the good by administering 
justice.  
 
8. 
Q. How is this done? 
A. Laws are enacted which must be obeyed by 
all; with disobedience bringing punishment by 
the government through the exercise of force. 
 
9. 
Q. Who enacts these laws? 
A.  In America laws must be legislated; that is, 
they are passed into law by elected legislatures. 
Occasionally, men try to pronounce laws that are 
not passed by such a legislative process.  
 
10. 
Q. What is such a non legislative government 
called? 
A. This kind of government, one in which laws 
are made binding without passing a legislatures, 
is called despotism or tyranny.  
 
11. 
Q. Why are laws passed by legislatures, and not 
directly by the people? 
A. That is called a Democracy, but America is not 
a Democracy. We are a Representative Republic, 
wherein we vote officials into power to legislate 
on our behalf  
 


===== PAGE 11 =====
12. 
Q. Why is America not a Democracy? 
A. It is impractical for all the people to gather in a 
single assembly. Likewise, not all people have 
the moral, mental or spiritual aptitude to directly 
govern through Democracy.  
 
13. 
Q. Which of these ways of governing a nation is 
best? 
A. The best government governs the least, while 
yet protecting life, liberty and property.  
 
14. 
Q. Why do people obey government? 
A. Because the government has the legal means 
to punish by the forced confiscation of property 
and the exercising of violence upon those who 
disobey.  
 
15. 
Q. Cannot the people resist the government? 
A. This has sometimes been done, and is 
sometimes necessary. There are certain ways to 
resist governmental power that are legal, and 
others that are not.  
 
16. 
Q. Was America always a Republic? 
A. No, she was once a collection of colonies. 
 
17. 
Q. What do you mean by colonies?  
A. A colony is a group of citizens of a nation, who 
settle themselves in a different land under the 
auspices of their home nation, and hence 


===== PAGE 12 =====
continue to be ultimately governed by that home 
nation.  
 
18. 
Q. By what nation were the American colonies 
governed? 
A. The colonies that first created the United 
States by their union were governed by Great 
Britain.  
 
19. 
Q. From where did the laws come that governed 
the colonies from Great Britain? 
A. The laws inherited by the colonists came from 
what is called English Common Law and Social 
Compact Theory.  
 
20. 
Q. Were these laws good and wise? 
A. Many of them were; and for a time the 
colonies were blessed by their relationship with 
Great Britain. But over time, unjust laws were 
passed upon these colonies which threatened 
their reasonable liberties and well being.  
 
21. 
Q. What was the colonies response to these 
unjust laws? 
A. They issued complaints, and for a time 
reasoned with Great Britain, in an attempt to 
persuade her to see her error and govern more 
justly.  
 
22. 
Q. Did Great Britain heed their complaints and 
repeal these unjust laws? 


===== PAGE 13 =====
A. No, but instead she deployed her navy and 
army threatening the colonies with confiscation 
of their wealth and violence toward their 
persons if their compliance was not forthcoming.  
 
23. 
Q. And did they obey? 
A. No; the people of the colonies consulted with 
each other what was to be done, and at length 
took up arms, raised such armies as they could, 
and though they had few soldiers, no 
experienced officers, and but little money, they 
waged war against the whole power of Great 
Britain, and having (with the aid of France) 
forced two British armies to lay down their arms 
and surrender themselves prisoners, 
culminatedin the compelling of Great Britain to 
acknowledge their independence.  
 
24. 
Q. Did the colonists sin against God by rebelling 
against Great Britain? 
A. No, not at all. Great Britain surrendered the 
colonists as their Citizens when they denied 
them representation in Parliament. The 
Colonists were Citizens where they were 
represented, which was in their colonies. When a 
government breaks it’s own compact with its 
Citizens, its Citizens are free to find or create 
new government.  
 
25. 
Q. When the Citizens of the colonies declared 
their independence, what was Great Britain’s 


===== PAGE 14 =====
response? 
A. Great Britain continued to confiscate the 
wealth and commit violence upon the Citizens of 
the colonies, and thus provoke a state of war.  
 
26. 
Q. When we speak of this war, what do we call it? 
A. We call it the American Revolution.  
 
27. 
Q. What do you mean by Revolution? 
A. A revolution means to revolt with the aim of 
securing a great change of government.  
 
28. 
Q. When and where did the war of the revolution 
begin? 
A. At Lexington and Concord, villages near 
Boston in Massachusetts, on the 19th of April, 
1775.  
 
29. 
Q. How long did the struggle continue? 
A. More than seven years.  
 
30. 
Q. When did it end? 
A. On the 21st of January, 1783 when a treaty was 
signed at Paris acknowledging the independence 
of the United States.  
 
31. 
Q. Why is the 4th of July kept with such public 
rejoicing through all parts of the United States? 
A. Because it was on the 4th of July, 1776, that the 
Colonies first declared themselves free and 
independent. 


===== PAGE 15 =====
 
32. 
Q. What was the change produced by the 
Revolution? 
A. The different Colonies became each a free 
state, having power to govern itself in any way it 
should think proper.  
 
33. 
Q. Had not one state any power over the other? 
34. 
A. Legally, each state was an independent, 
autonomous and sovereign entity.  
 
35. 
Q. Why did the states decide to create the Union?  
A. The states discovered that they could better 
accomplish several vitally important tasks by 
working together, creating a general and central 
government to help the states achieve this 
cooperation.  
 
36. 
Q. What approach to government and law did the 
states first create in order to work together? 
A. They drafted the Articles of Confederation. 
 
37. 
Q. What were the Articles of Confederation?   
A. The Articles of Confederation were a broad 
precursor to what would become the 
Constitution of the United States. 
 
38. 
Q. What were the problems with the Articles of 
Confederation? 
A. The problems with the Articles of 
Confederation were mostly due to their lack of 


===== PAGE 16 =====
specificity and the resulting deficiency they 
provided for governing a nation such as the 
United States hoped to become. 
 
39. 
Q. Who makes laws in both the states and in the 
Union? 
A. Laws which concern only one of the states are 
made by persons chosen by the people of that 
state by representatives they have selected, 
called the legislature. Laws which concern all the 
states or more states than one are made by the 
Congress of the United States. 
 
40. 
Q. But if even the Congress itself should enact a 
law which is contrary to the United States 
Constitution, must the people obey it? 
A. No.  
 
41. 
Q. Who is to determine whether any law is 
contrary to the Constitution or not, the people 
themselves? 
A. No; Justices of the Supreme Court of the 
United States may issue opinions regarding 
whether or not laws are Constitutional.  
 
42. 
Q. Was this always a power of reviewing laws 
granted to the Supreme Court? 
A. Absolutely not. This power was gradually 
gained by the Judiciary through means which are 
themselves unconstitutional.  
 


===== PAGE 17 =====
43. 
Q. Do the members of the Congress of the United 
States all meet together in one assembly when 
they make the laws? 
A. No: they meet in two different assemblies, one 
of which is called the Senate, and the other is 
called the House of Representatives.  
 
44. 
Q. Who chooses the persons who shall be 
members of the House of Representatives? 
A. The people of all the states: because the laws 
of Congress concern all the states, and must be 
obeyed by all the people of the Republic.  
 
45. 
Q. May all people vote to decide who shall 
represent them? 
A. No. Only Citizens of the state who are eighteen 
years of age or older may vote.  
 
46. 
Q. Are there any other requirements of voting, 
besides Citizenry and age? 
A. While certain protections were initially made 
in early America, today the only requirements 
are citizenship and age, and the ability to prove 
both through the means of authorized 
identification.  
 
47. 
Q. Are there any persons unfit to vote? 
A. There may be some, due to general ignorance 
or laziness, who should not vote. The law, 
however, allows people to vote so long as they 
are Citizens who are of age.  


===== PAGE 18 =====
 
48. 
Q. How is the election conducted?  
A. On a publicly announced and scheduled day, 
the people who are to choose, called voters, meet 
at various authorized locations called the polls: 
here, officials are stationed called inspectors, 
who oversee receptacles called ballot boxes, and 
each person who votes puts into a hole in the top 
of these boxes a piece of paper with the names of 
the persons whom he chooses written or printed 
on it. These pieces of paper are afterwards 
examined and counted by the inspectors, who 
keep a tallied account of the names voted for and 
the number of votes given by the people of each 
state. The persons having the greatest number of 
votes are chosen. Due to technological advances, 
there are some slight differences in the mode of 
holding elections in the different states, but it is 
the same in every important particular.  
 
49. 
Q. Are the times, places and manner of holding 
these elections fixed by Congress? 
A. No: They have, thus far, been left to be 
regulated by each state for I tself, but Congress 
may fix them if it deems appropriate.  
 
50. 
Q. Suppose a dispute should arise concerning an 
election, and one person shall declare that he has 
been fairly chosen, while another denies it, and 
insists that he himself has been chosen; who has 
the power to settle that dispute? 


===== PAGE 19 =====
A. A dispute between persons who claim a seat in 
the House of Representatives can be determined 
only by the House of Representatives; a dispute 
between persons claiming a seat in the Senate 
can be settled by the Senate only.  
 
51. 
Q. When a person is chosen to be a member of 
the House of Representatives, how long does he 
continue to hold that seat? 
A. For a term of two years.  
 
52. 
Q. When the two years have expired, may he be 
chosen again? 
A. Yes.  
 
53. 
Q. Suppose he dies before the end of his term? 
A. Another is chosen in his stead, for the 
remainder of that term. This process varies 
between state legislatures and also for the 
federal house.  
 
54. 
Q. How old must a person be before he can be 
chosen a Member of the House? 
A. Twenty-five years old.  
 
55. 
Q. May a person be chosen who has just come 
into the United States, and who is a subject of 
some other country (that means, who is bound to 
obey the laws of some other country)? 
A. No. Any person, to be chosen a Member of our 
House of Representatives, must either have been 


===== PAGE 20 =====
born in the United States, or must have been a 
naturalized Citizen for seven years before he is 
eligible.  
 
56. 
Q. Naturalized? What does that mean? 
A. A person who was born in another country 
and comes to live in the United States, is not a 
Citizen until he has lived among us a certain 
time; and then, has taken a solemn oath to obey 
the Constitution. He is then admitted as a Citizen 
of our republic. This process is called 
naturalization; and once naturalized, he is 
allowed full Citizen rights including the choosing 
of rulers, just as if he had been born among us.  
 
57. 
Q. May the people of one State choose a person 
who is an inhabitant of another State to be a 
Member of the House of Representatives? 
A. No; he must be a Citizen of the State where he 
is voting.  
 
58. 
Q. How many persons may be chosen by each 
State, as Members of the House of 
Representatives? 
A. The number of Representatives of any state is 
in proportion to the number of people in that 
State.  
 
59. 
Q. Are any people, based upon their ethnicity or 
any other factor, counted more or less than 
others when factoring their representation in 


===== PAGE 21 =====
Congress? 
A. No, all people are treated equally under the 
Law.  
 
60. 
Q. How is it known what number of people each 
State contains? 
A. Certain persons are appointed to count the 
people and compile a written list of them. Such a 
counting is called a census, and it takes place 
once every ten years.  
 
61. 
Q. When the members of the House of 
Representatives meet to make the laws, are they 
all equal or does anyone preside over them? 
A. They choose one of their own number, whose 
duty it is to preside over them while they are 
assembled to do business, and to see that they 
proceed in a regular and orderly manner in 
doing their public duty. He is called their 
Speaker.  
 
62. 
Q. Who chooses the members of the Senate of the 
United States? 
A. The members of the Senate are chosen by the 
people, just  as are chosen the members of the 
House of Representatives.  
 
63. 
Q. Were members of the Senate always chosen 
this way? 
A. No. Members of the Senate were originally 
chosen by the Legislature of each state.  


===== PAGE 22 =====
 
64. 
Q. Was making the members of the Senate 
chosen by the people wise? 
A. No. Members of the Senate, known as 
Senators, were to represent the needs of the 
state as a whole, not of individuals directly. 
Making Senators elected in the same manner as 
Representatives defeated the purpose of a 
separate body designed to represent the states.  
 
65. 
Q. How many Senators may there be? 
A. Two from each state.  
 
66. 
Q. When a Citizen is chosen to be a Senator, how 
long is his term of duty? 
A. He shall serve for six years. If he dies before he 
finishes his duty or resigns his office, another 
shall be elected in his place.  
 
67. 
Q. Are all the Senators chosen at the same time, 
as are members of the House of Representatives? 
A. No. Only one third are chosen at a time in two 
year intervals, so that every two years one third 
of the number of the Senators see the expiration 
of their terms; but the same persons may again 
be chosen if the people wish to reelect them.  
 
68. 
Q. How old must a person be before he can be 
nominated for a seat in the United States Senate? 
A. Thirty years old.  
 


===== PAGE 23 =====
69. 
Q. Can he be chosen if he has not been born in 
the United States? 
A. Yes, if he has been a naturalized Citizen for at 
least nine years.  
 
70. 
Q. Can a Senator for one State be chosen by the 
people of another State? 
A. No. The people must choose a Citizen of their 
State.   
 
71. 
Q. Does the Senate choose a Speaker, as the 
House of Representatives does? 
A. No. The person who is chosen by the people to 
be Vice President of the United States is made by 
the Constitution, President of the Senate; his 
duties are like those of the Speaker of the House 
of Representatives, except that he is not obliged 
to keep order in debate.  
 
72. 
Q. Do the Senators ever sit as Judges? 
A. Yes. When any civil officer of the United States 
(that is, not an officer of the Army) is accused of 
a violation of his public duty and charged by the 
House of Representatives, and tried by the 
Senate. Such a process is called a trial of 
impeachment.  
 
73. 
Q. What do you mean by his being tried by the 
Senate? 
A. The Senators take a solemn oath that they will 
carefully attend to the evidence that shall be 


===== PAGE 24 =====
brought before them, and according to that 
evidence adjudge the accused person innocent or 
guilty, as the case may be. The House of 
Representatives appoints some of their own 
Members to present this evidence before the 
Senate, and afterwards the accused person 
presents evidence in his defense; when both 
have been heard, the members of the Senate 
vote, that is, each one declares his opinion; and if 
two thirds of all the Senators who are present 
declare the accused person to be guilty, a guilty 
verdict is returned; if not, he is declared not to be 
guilty of the charges.  
 
74. 
Q. Cannot the Senate, in like manner, impeach, 
that is, solemnly charge an officer before the 
House of Representatives? 
A. No. None can bring an impeachment but the 
House of Representatives, and none can try an 
impeachment but the Senate.  
 
75. 
Q. May ever the President of the United states be 
thus impeached and punished? 
A. Yes. No man is above the law.  
 
76. 
Q. How often does the Congress meet? 
A. It must meet at least once in every year; but 
may meet more often if necessary.  
 
77. 
Q. Is any day fixed for its meeting? 
A. Yes; the first Monday in December; but it has 


===== PAGE 25 =====
power to fix an alternate day. When a session of 
Congress ceases to meet, it is said to adjourn. 
 
78. 
Q. Why was this date in December originally 
chosen? 
A. The founders did not design or expect 
Congress to meet for great lengths of time. 
Because the founders knew that the best 
government governs the least, they expected 
Congress to get done with it’s  business after the 
harvest, during a few weeks in December.  
 
79. 
Q. Suppose all members of the Senate, or all 
members of the House of Representatives do not 
attend a meeting, can those who do not attend 
make laws without them?  
80. 
A. If more than one half are present, they have in 
most cases power to do whatever the whole 
number could have done. More than one half are 
called a majority, less than one half are called a 
minority. As many as are necessary to do 
business are called a quorum.  
 
81. 
Q. Supposing less than one half should attend, 
can they do nothing? 
A. Yes, they have power to send for the others 
and compel them to attend.  
 
82. 
Q. Who settles what these aforementioned rules 
shall be? 
A. The rules for the Senate are made by the 


===== PAGE 26 =====
Senate; the rules for the House of 
Representatives are made by the House of 
Representatives. Each house has power to alter 
its own rules of order, or to suspend them.  
 
83. 
Q. Suppose a member refuses to attend or 
behaves in a disorderly manner. What may 
happen to him? 
A. He may be punished in any way the other 
members think proper.  
 
84. 
Q. May he even be expelled from the House?  
A. Yes, but only by a two thirds vote of all the 
members. 
 
85. 
Q. May Congress sit in secret? 
A. Yes. Whenever they are engaged in business 
which would be better done in private, they close 
their doors.  
 
86. 
Q. After Congress has met, may either house 
adjourn for more than three days at a time, 
without the consent of the other house?  
A. No.  
 
87. 
Q. Do the two houses, that is the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, meet in the same 
building? 
A. Yes.  
 


===== PAGE 27 =====
88. 
Q. May either house remove to any other place? 
A. No, not unless the other house moves also.  
 
89. 
Q. Do members of congress receive anything for 
doing the business of the public? 
A. Their best reward is the honor of serving their 
country; but as many of them cannot afford to 
leave their own business so often without having 
the loss in some measure compensated, the 
Constitution says that they shall be allowed such 
a compensation to be ascertained by law, and 
paid out of the Treasury of the United States.  
 
90. 
Q. Who fixes the rate of compensation, that is, 
how much the members shall be paid? 
A. It is fixed by Congress.  
 
91. 
Q. Ought they be allowed to fix their own wages? 
A. It cannot be avoided, for there is none other 
power to make laws but Congress.  
 
92. 
Q. May members of Congress be arrested while 
they are attending their public duty? 
A. Their duties are of such value to us that the 
Constitution does not allow them to be arrested 
while going to or returning from their home to 
the Capitol where Congress meets, except in the 
cases of treason, felony, or breach of the peace.  
 
93. 
Q. When is a person guilty of treason? 
A. When he makes war against the United States 


===== PAGE 28 =====
or provides aid and or comfort to others who are 
making war against the United States. It is 
punishable by death.  
 
94. 
Q. If members of Congress while engaged in a 
debate, that is, in arguing about any law that is 
proposed to be made, shall say anything 
offensive to another member, may he be sued for 
it by the other in a court of law? 
A. No, lest this destroy the freedom of debate and 
make members afraid to speak their mind. A 
member  cannot be held to account in any other 
place for anything he says on the floor of 
Congress.  
 
95. 
Q. If Congress creates a new office or increases 
the salary for an existing office, may a member of 
Congress who participated in this process be 
then appointed to that office? 
A. No, not until the whole time for which he was 
chosen a member shall have expired.  
 
96. 
Q. How does Congress proceed in making the 
laws of the land? 
A. A member usually proposes that other select 
members usually with expertise in the area of 
the proposed law, called a committee, shall 
consider his explanation for whether a new law, 
or change of law concerning a particular issue, 
warrants further consideration. 
 


===== PAGE 29 =====
If a majority of the members think it will in fact 
be best to consider the matter, they order certain 
other members to do so. These members, or 
committees, meet together, and having 
considered the proposal, determine whether it is 
proper to advise the members of the whole 
House to make a law respecting it. If they do 
think it is proper,  they draft the exact words that 
they deem best express the intent of the new 
law. This writing is called a bill.  
 
They return to the House, and either in writing 
or by word of mouth, declare what they have 
proposed, and state the reasons for having 
proposed it. Such a statement is called a 
“committee’s report.” The bill is then read twice. 
The member who first proposed the matter now 
further proposes (or moves, as it is called) that 
this bill be considered by all the members. If this 
is agreed to, the bill is then taken under 
consideration. Every member has an opportunity 
to propose alterations; and every member may 
give reasons why such a bill ought or ought not 
to be passed into law. If any alterations are 
made, the Bill as altered is written over again 
and read a third time.  If after full consideration, 
it is finally agreed to, it has then passed the 
house. 
97. 
Q. Is it now a law? 


===== PAGE 30 =====
A. By no means. The bill thus passed by one body 
is then sent to the other body. There it is again 
considered, and, if that body deems proper, is 
further altered. It is then returned to the body 
where it began. If this body disapproves of the 
alterations made by the other, it sends the bill 
back, that they may abandon the alterations, but 
if they will not so abandon them, a committee of 
conference is appointed; that is, certain 
members are sent from each body to meet 
together and attempt to bring the matter into a 
form that can be agreed upon by both the house 
and the senate. If they succeed, and the bodies 
agree, the bill is then engrossed (that is, copied) 
on parchment and signed by the President, the 
Secretary of the Senate, and by the Speaker and 
the Clerk of the House of Representatives.  
 
98. 
Q. Is it now a law?  
A. Not yet. The engrossed bill is then sent to the 
President of the United States for his 
approbation. If he approves it, he signs and 
returns it. The bill is then called an act, and it 
becomes the law of the land.  
 
99. 
Q. What if he does not approve of it? 
A. If he does not approve of it, he must return the 
bill together with his objections, in writing, to 
the body in which it began. That body must copy 
the whole of these objections into their journal, 
and then consider the bill once more. When they 


===== PAGE 31 =====
have done this, if two-thirds of that house shall 
agree to pass the bill, they must send it, together 
with the President’s objections, to the other 
body. There the bill must, in like manner, be 
reconsidered. If two-thirds of this body also 
agree to pass it, it becomes a law. But in all such 
cases, the names of all the members of each 
house who voted for and against the bill must be 
recorded.  
 
100. 
Q. Suppose the President of the United States 
should neglect to sign and return a bill sent to 
him by Congress? 
A. If he does not sign or return any bill within ten 
days after it is sent to him (not counting 
Sundays), it becomes a law unless in that time 
Congress shall have adjourned.  
 
101. 
Q. Why is making a law so complicated? 
A. The more laws a nation has, the less liberty 
will be protected. The founders designed the 
process for creating laws to be difficult and 
rigorous in order to protect the people against 
tyranny by legislation.  
 
102. 
Q. You have said that no laws can be made for the 
United States but by Congress; may Congress 
make any laws they please? 
A. No. Their power is limited by the Constitution. 
They have no power except that specifically 
granted them by the Constitution, which was 


===== PAGE 32 =====
designed to limit their power. Whatever power is 
not given to the federal government in the 
Constitution is reserved for the states and the 
people.  
 
103. 
Q. What powers are given to Congress by the 
Constitution? 
A. Congress has the power to collect taxes, 
duties, imposts and excises.  
 
104. 
Q. What is a tax? 
A. Tax is a sum of money which the people are 
directed to pay to support the Constitutional 
functions of government. Tax is the confiscation 
of wealth by the government, under the threat of 
coercion, usually threatening confiscation of 
property or violence to one who does not pay it.  
 
105. 
Q. What are duties? 
A. Duties are sums of money which must be paid 
by persons who bring goods of any kind from 
another country into the United States. It is paid 
at certain places called Customs Houses, and is 
sent onward to the Treasury of the United States.  
 
106. 
Q. What are Imposts? 
A. Imposts are sums of money which must be 
paid to the government, by persons owning 
vessels, which enter the harbors of the United 
States.  
 


===== PAGE 33 =====
107. 
Q. What are Excises? 
A. Excises are sums of money which must be paid 
to the government, by persons who make certain 
articles within the United States, in proportion to 
the quantity or value of the articles 
manufactured.  
 
108. 
Q. What do you mean by levying these, and what 
by collecting them? 
A. Laying a tax is determining how much it 
should be, and collecting a tax is obliging people 
to pay it by threat of force.  
 
109. 
Q. What means of force does our government use 
to collect taxes? 
A. Government uses various means of force, but 
chiefly the confiscation of property or the 
violence of imprisonment or some other 
punishment that will bring harm upon property 
or body.  
 
110. 
Q. Is it the duty of a Citizen to pay taxes? 
A. It is the duty of a Citizen to pay taxes, so long 
as it is in keeping with the social compact 
between the government and the governed.  
 
111. 
Q. Why is it the duty of a Citizen to pay taxes? 
A. First, the Bible – the foundation of Western 
law and civilization – instructs us to render taxes 
to the ruling authorities. Secondly, Citizens have 
the responsibility to rule the nation, and with the 


===== PAGE 34 =====
responsibility of ruling, comes the obligation to 
steward resources, which includes paying taxes.  
 
112. 
Q. Should all Citizens be required to pay taxes 
equally? 
A. All Citizens should be required to pay taxes in 
the most equitable way possible, and no Citizen 
should be exempt from paying taxes so long as 
any other Citizen is taxed. Fairness requires 
impartiality, and taxes should be collected 
impartially. 
 
113. 
Q. Are all taxes constitutional? 
A. No. Sometimes the government abuses its 
power, and uses taxation as a means to punish its 
enemies or manipulate the behavior of its 
Citizens. Often this is done through means other 
than that provided for by legislation through 
Congress.  
 
114. 
Q. What is the most equitable, or fair, form of 
taxation? 
A. The most equitable form of taxation is a tax on 
consumable goods, which is the same tax for all 
people who purchase those goods.  
 
115. 
Q. Why is a tax on consumable goods the most 
equitable, or fair, form of taxation? 
A. A tax on consumable goods treats people 
indiscriminately, and does not take into account 
prejudices against the certain classes of people, 


===== PAGE 35 =====
which inevitably leads to strife between classes. 
Likewise, Citizens can choose the amount of 
taxes they pay, by choosing whether or not to 
buy those consumable goods. Finally, those who 
purchase more consumable goods because they 
have more financial resources, will pay more 
taxes, because their taxes are in proportion to 
their consumption.  
 
116. 
Q. Is a tax on income Constitutional? 
A. The income tax was ruled unconstitutional, 
according to the Supreme Court in 1895. 
However, the 16th Amendment  to our 
Constitution of 1913 declared the income tax to 
now be constitutional.  
 
117. 
Q. Is a tax on income wise? 
A. Taxes that penalize income are unwise in a 
nation that desires to create and sustain wealth. 
In certain cases, taxing income will cause people 
to be less industrious, which will diminish both 
the income of the government and the income of 
the individual.  
 
118. 
Q. Is a tax on income moral? 
A. Graduated taxes that treat people partially, by 
taxing different people at different rates, are 
immoral because they treat people unequally. It 
is the application of unjust weights and 
measures, which should be seen as wrong in any 
morally conscientious society.  


===== PAGE 36 =====
 
119. 
Q. Is there any other way that a tax may be 
unjust, aside from partiality?  
A. Any wealth that is confiscated to redistribute 
to others is inherently unjust, and is theft. 
Likewise, any confiscation of wealth in order to 
finance governmental powers not granted them 
by the Constitution is inherently unjust.  
 
120. 
Q. Could any government exist without taxation? 
A. No government has ever existed without 
taxation, although certain governments have 
raised revenue through tariffs or trade or by the 
taxation of colonies by imperialism rather than 
by direct taxation of its own Citizens.  
 
121. 
Q. Ought the people complain of having to pay 
taxes? 
A. People ought to complain when taxes are 
unjust. However, if the benefits of taxation are 
distributed through the function of government 
to all classes of people equally, and all people are 
equal beneficiaries of government services to 
them (and they include only the services 
required of the government by the Constitution), 
then they should not complain about taxation.  
 
122. 
Q. What are the benefits of taxation? 
A. The benefits of taxation include a government 
that can afford to defend its Citizens against 
invasions of foreign armies, mint currency, 


===== PAGE 37 =====
execute laws, provide certain necessary 
infrastructure, punish wickedness and reward 
good.  
 
123 
Q. May one part of the United States be required 
to pay at a greater rate than the rest? 
A. No; all duties, imposts, and excises must be 
uniform throughout all of the United States.  
 
124. 
Q. What other power does Congress have aside 
from the levying of taxes? 
A. Congress has the power to borrow money on 
the credit of the United States.  
 
125. 
Q. What other power does Congress possess? 
A. It may make rules according to which the 
commerce of the citizens of the United States 
with other nations shall be carried out; also, it 
can make rules regarding the commerce of one 
state with another state and with Indian tribes. 
These are called the Foreign Commerce Clause, 
the Interstate Commerce Clause, and the Indian 
Commerce Clause. 
 
126. 
Q. What is an example of an instance in which the 
Interstate Commerce Clause is used? 
A. The Interstate Commerce Clause gives the 
Federal Government the power to make laws 
regarding the use of roadways or navigable 
waterways that extend from one state into the 
next.  


===== PAGE 38 =====
 
127. 
Q. What is an example of an instance in which the 
Interstate Commerce Clause has been abused? 
A. The Interstate Commerce Clause regulates 
trade between the states, and not the people of 
those states. Whereas roadways, navigable 
waterways or other publicly-owned properties 
may be under the purview of the Interstate 
Commerce Clause, the clause gives the Federal 
Government no right to oversee or regulate trade 
between individual Citizens within the several 
states.  
 
128. 
Q. What is another power given to Congress by 
the Constitution? 
A. Admitting a foreigner to become a Citizen of 
the United States is the power of Congress, which 
can make one uniform rule that shall be followed 
throughout the country.  
 
129. 
Q. What else may Congress do? 
A. Congress may mint money, meaning that it 
shall mark or stamp certain pieces of metal or 
paper in such a way as it shall make them legal 
tender at a set monetary value. It may also set 
one uniform size for weights and measures.  
 
130. 
Q. May any persons who pleases mint money? 
A. No, only the Congress may mint money that is 
to be considered mandatory legal currency. 
While states or individuals may maintain 


===== PAGE 39 =====
precious metals which may be traded or 
bartered like any other good, only that issued by 
the United States congress must be received as 
currency.  
 
131. 
Q. May Congress outsource control over 
currency to any other body? 
A. No. The Constitution does not allow Congress 
to outsource the control of currency to any other 
body.  
 
132. 
Q. Are private banks, like that of the Federal 
Reserve, to be allowed to set monetary policy or 
print currency? 
A. No. Only Congress may set monetary policy 
and print currency according to the Constitution. 
To allow this privilege to other bodies, is a 
dereliction of their duty and places the liberty of 
the Citizens in the hands of private interest 
rather than in the hands of their duly elected 
representatives.  
 
133. 
Q. What other power belongs to Congress? 
A. Congress may establish a postal service or 
office, locations and instruments for the carrying 
out of those services and  also roads upon which 
those services may be carried out.  
 
134. 
Q. What is the post office? 
A.  An organization with the resources for the 
gathering and delivery of letters and packages 


===== PAGE 40 =====
from one citizen or business to anothe, as a 
service provided by the government to its 
Citizens.  
 
135. 
Q. Does congress protect the personal ideas and 
inventions of the citizens? 
A. Yes, it may grant patents and copyrights.  
 
136. 
Q. What are patents and copyrights? 
A. When a person has composed or invented 
something new and useful, Congress may give 
them an exclusive right to produce and sell their 
composition or invention for a certain number of 
years; during which time no one else may 
produce or sell that item, or profit from that idea 
without due compensation to the person who 
composed or invented it. Patents are for 
inventions and copyrights are for ideas.  
 
137. 
Q. Can Congress erect courts or direct judges? 
A. Yes, Congress may appoint as many courts as 
it deems necessary for the answering of 
questions and cases relating to matters 
particularly pertaining to the federal 
government, or rights acknowledged by the 
Constitution.  
 
138. 
Q. Has congress the power to declare war? 
A. Yes, it is congress that holds this most solemn 
and weighty power, that being the declaration of 


===== PAGE 41 =====
war between the United States and any other 
foreign power.  
 
139. 
Q. When Congress has declared the United States 
to be at war with any particular nation, can any 
of the Citizens of the United States remain at 
peace with that nation.  
A. Citizens cannot be forced to violate their 
conscience. However, Citizens can be obliged 
under the threat of force to not provide aid or 
assistance to enemies of the United States, 
especially during wartime.  
 
140. 
Q. When the United States has a grievance 
against another nation, and yet does not wish to 
go to war with that nation, is there any other 
measure Congress may take to compel that 
nation to do them justice? 
A. Yes. Congress may issue diplomatic or 
economic sanctions or punishments upon them.  
 
141. 
Q. When Congress declares war, may it raise and 
equip armies and hire soldiers? 
A. Congress may pay, equip, clothe, feed and 
transport soldiers at the public expense.  
 
142. 
Q. May Congress make a law, setting apart 
money enough at one time, to pay and support 
an army for more than two years? 
A. No, lest a wicked Congress, by keeping a 
standing army, remain in power beyond the time 


===== PAGE 42 =====
for which they were elected, and so destroy the 
liberty of their country.  
 
143. 
Q. Why was the time limited to two years? 
A. Because every two years a new Congress may 
be chosen.  
 
144. 
Q. Does the Congress have the right to raise and 
support the army only? 
A. No, Congress may raise and support any 
branch of the armed services.  
 
145. 
Q. Has the United States no other defense than to 
depend upon hired soldiers? 
A. The country may also have militias raised up 
among the people to defend the nation.  
 
146. 
Q. What is a militia? 
A. A militia is a group of armed Citizens, who are 
not within the United States military, but who 
have chosen to bear arms to protect themselves 
or others.  
 
147. 
Q. Does a militia only exist in order to protect the 
nation against foreign powers? 
A. No, a militia may protect the nation against 
unrest, injustice, or a tyrannical domestic 
government.  
 
148. 
Q. May Congress command the militia? 


===== PAGE 43 =====
A. The Congress may command the militia, upon 
the agreement of the militia. A free nation 
requires a militia that is not beholden to a 
government that may be or become corrupt.  
 
149. 
Q. Must a militia be an organized para-military 
unit? 
A. No, a militia is any number of Citizens that are 
armed and willing to protect the nation. It does 
not have to be structured like the United States 
military.  
 
150. 
Q. How does Congress see to the location and 
logistics of it’s own business? 
A. The Congress may enact all laws relating to a 
geographical location where it’s members meet 
to conduct the business of state and which is also 
the seat of federal government. Currently, this is 
Washington D.C. (District of Columbia) 
 
151. 
Q. Has this district its own legislature like the 
states have? 
A. No.  
 
152. 
Q. Is the district a part of a state? 
A. No, it is a territory the states have 
relinquished for the purpose of it being the seat 
of the federal government. 
 
153. 
Q. Are there any other locations in the United 
States under similar control by Congress? 


===== PAGE 44 =====
A. Yes, and they include all forts, armories, and 
international docks. These are governed not by 
the states, but by the Congress.  
 
154. 
Q. Aside from these, are there any other land or 
properties in the United States under similar 
control by Congress? 
A. Today, the Federal Government believes it has 
similar control over “public” land it presumes to 
be owned by itself. In fact, these are not “federal 
lands,” per se, but are public lands owned by the 
People. The Constitution allows the Federal 
Government to own no land other than for forts, 
armories and international docks, and allows for 
no monuments or parks to be managed by 
Congress. They may, however, be owned and 
stewarded by the States or the People.  
 
155. 
Q. Are there additional powers conferred by the 
Constitution upon the Congress of the United 
States? 
A. Congress may make any law which “shall be 
necessary and proper for carrying into execution 
the foregoing powers,” that is, any law necessary 
to fulfill the very specific responsibilities given it 
by the Constitution.  
 
156. 
Q. Is slavery legal? 
A. No, slavery is an affront to God and to 
civilization, and forbidden by equal application 
of the Law.  


===== PAGE 45 =====
 
157. 
Q. Was slavery legal? 
A. Yes, slaves were inconsistently treated as 
property at the founding of our country, while 
yet in certain instances were in fact counted as 
people. As more people called for the abolition of 
slavery, it therefore and unfortunately, became a 
matter of property rights that brought our nation 
to war.  
 
158. 
Q. Doesn’t a Citizen have a right to have his 
property, and to maintain his property without 
fear of confiscation? 
A. Yes, a Citizen has the right to have and 
maintain his property. However, God did not 
make men as property to be owned by other 
men. 
 
159. 
Q. What made slavery illegal?  
A. The Thirteenth Amendment of the 
Constitution made slavery illegal. However, the 
fact that all men were not treated equally under 
the law was a great national sin, for which our 
country has paid dearly.  
 
160. 
Q. If slavery was not made illegal until the 
Thirteenth Amendment, was it wrong for the 
Union to coerce the states to free their slaves? 
A. While slavery is immoral, it was 
unconstitutional for the Union to coerce the 


===== PAGE 46 =====
states to free slaves without first amending the 
Constitution.  
 
161. 
Q. Does a state have the right to secede from the 
Union of States? 
A. Yes. States may – constitutionally – join 
themselves with other states at their will, and 
their involvement in the union should not be 
coerced. The Constitution could have stipulated 
the Union was to be perpetual and irrevocable, 
but it did not. Furthermore, the founders 
repeatedly argued that the agreement forming 
the United States was not forever binding, but 
only binding by the continued consent of the 
States.  
 
162. 
Q. What should the Union do if a State wishes to 
secede?  
A. The Union may try to amend whatever 
grievance the state has against the Federal 
Government, or may revoke benefits bestowed 
to the state on behalf of the Federal Government, 
to persuade them to stay. To make war upon the 
States is tyranny and despotism.  
 
163. 
Q. If an American Citizen is seized and 
imprisoned, may he be kept there as long as 
those who arrested him see fit?  
A. No; he may obtain  a writ of Habeas Corpus.  
 
164. 
Q. What is Habeas Corpus? 


===== PAGE 47 =====
A. It is a command from a court, by which the 
jailer is forced to allow the prisoner to be 
brought before a judge that the occasion of his 
imprisonment may be examined: in order to 
ensure that there is just and legal cause for 
detaining him, and if not, that he may 
immediately be set at liberty.  
 
165. 
Q. Must this command be given whenever it is 
applied for?  
A. Yes, except under exceptional circumstances, 
when this privilege is suspended (that is, 
interrupted for a time, but not taken away).  
 
166. 
Q. When may this right of having a writ of 
Habeas Corpus, which belongs by the 
Constitution to every Citizen, be suspended? 
A. Only in cases of rebellion by our own Citizens, 
or invasion by a foreign enemy; wherein the 
public danger is so great as to require prisoners 
who would otherwise be afforded this right, to 
remain in detention until this exceptional state of 
great potential danger has passed.  As soon as it 
actually has passed, the right of Habeas Corpus 
must be immediately restored.  
 
167. 
Q. Is this a very great and important privilege 
and ought all Americans to guard it with the 
greatest care?  
A. It is one of the greatest rights of a free man 
and Americans must never surrender it, under 


===== PAGE 48 =====
any pretext, if they value and would preserve 
their liberty.  
 
168. 
Q. May a man’s children be punished by law for 
his offense? 
A. This must never happen in our country; and is 
expressly forbidden by the Constitution. 
 
169. 
Q. May a Citizen of the United States be punished 
for an action that was not contrary to any law at 
the time of the action, but does violate a law that 
was enacted after the time of the action? 
A. No. A law that attempts to punish actions that 
were done before the law was made, is called an 
“ex-post-facto law.” This also is expressly 
forbidden by the Constitution.  
 
170. 
Q. When a direct tax is leveyed, that is, when 
Congress orders that a certain sum of money 
must be paid by each Citizen, for the public use, 
what is the rule by which such a tax is to be 
collected? 
A. The rule by which such a tax is to collected is 
the census, or public counting of the people. 
 
171. 
Q. May any money be required to be paid on 
goods exported, that is, delivered from, any of 
the States? 
A. No.  
 


===== PAGE 49 =====
172. 
Q. May any law be passed giving to the ports of 
one State preferential treatment over that given 
to ports of other States? 
A. No.  
 
173. 
Q. In what way can the monies of the United 
States be drawn from the Treasury?  
A. Monies may be withdrawn from the United 
States Treasury only by authority of a law of 
Congress and such a law is called an 
Appropriation.  
 
174. 
Q. Must a full account be kept of all monies 
received into the Treasury, and withdrawn from 
it; and must this account be published, that is, 
printed and distributed from time to time? 
A. Yes.  
 
175. 
Q. Can any families be distinguished as nobility 
from the rest of the Citizens of the Republic? 
A. No; no title of Nobility can be granted in 
America. The only titles among us, are those 
which mark a person’s trade in the army or navy, 
or his office in the State. 
 
176. 
Q. May any Citizen of the United States receive a 
title of nobility from the king, or prince, or 
government of any other country? 
A. The government does not interfere with the 
lives of private persons, but no person holding 
any office of profit or trust under our Republic 


===== PAGE 50 =====
can accept either a title, sum of money as salary, 
an office, or even a gift, from any foreign throne 
or government, without the express consent of 
Congress.  
 
177. 
Q. When the States agreed to form a voluntary 
union with the other States and to create the 
Federal Government, what responsibilities did 
they delegate to that Federal Government? 
A. The States granted to the Federal Government 
the responsibility to make treaties and alliances 
with other nations, the right to coin money and 
to emit bills of credit, and the right to lay duties 
on exports and imports.  
 
178. 
Q. May the States keep soldiers whom they pay, 
in time of peace? 
A. No.  
 
179. 
Q. May they keep ships of war, in time of peace? 
A. No.  
 
178. 
Q. May a single State make a treaty with another 
nation?  
A. No.  
 
179. 
Q. May a single State declare war? 
A. No; not unless an enemy has entered their 
bounds, or is in such danger of entering, that 
there is no time to wait for the aid of the Federal 
Government, or unless the Federal Government 


===== PAGE 51 =====
itself has become that enemy that must be 
defended against.  
 
180. 
Q. Why did the States delegate these powers to 
the Federal Government? 
A. In order to aid and assist in a more consistent 
governance among all the people known as 
Americans.  
 
181. 
Q. Who executes the laws which Congress has 
made, that is, who takes the responsibility in 
seeing that all Citizens shall obey these laws? 
A. The President of the United States. 
 
182. 
Q. Can the President make laws? 
A. No, not at all. Those two powers, making law 
and executing law, are kept by the Constitutions 
entirely separate; the power that makes the law 
cannot execute it, and the power that executes 
the law cannot make it. The powers of 
lawmaking are called Legislative powers, and 
powers of law enforcement are called Executive 
powers.  
 
183. 
Q. Is there any advantage to this? 
A. Certainly; it is the great safeguard of freedom 
because, if the one makes oppressive laws, the 
other may refuse to enforce them; or, if the one 
wishes to play the tyrant, the other may refuse to 
create laws for them.  
 


===== PAGE 52 =====
184. 
Q. How does a  man become President of the 
United States? 
A. He is elected (chosen) by the people of the 
United States.  
 
185. 
Q. How does the process of electing the President 
work?  
A. Every four years, Citizens may vote for a 
candidate for President and Vice President, who 
share a “ticket,” meaning that they run together 
as a pair or team. In most states, the candidate 
who wins the majority of votes in that state wins 
that state’s electoral votes in a “winner take all” 
process. Maine and Nebraska are exceptions to 
this convention, awarding two electors to the 
statewide winner and one to the candidate who 
wins in each state congressional district. 
 
186. 
Q. How are electors chosen? 
A. This process varies from state to state. 
Typically, political parties nominate electors at 
their state conventions. Sometimes the process 
happens by a vote of the party’s central 
committee. The electors are often state-elected 
officials, political party leaders, or respected 
individuals within the party. Comprised 
together, these electors are called the “Electoral 
College.”  
 
187. 
Q. Do electors have to vote for their party’s 
candidate? 


===== PAGE 53 =====
A. Neither the Constitution nor any federal law 
forces electors to vote for their party’s candidate. 
However, some states require electors to vote for 
their party’s candidate if the candidate wins a 
majority of votes from among Citizens of that 
State. It is exceptionally rare – but not 
inconceivable – that an elector may vote 
contrary to the wishes of their party.  
 
188. 
Q. How many electoral votes must someone have 
to become President? 
A. They must receive the majority of electoral 
votes, that being 270.  
 
189. 
Q. What if no one gets a majority of the vote of 
the Electoral College?  
A. If no one receives a majority of electoral votes, 
then the election is decided by the House of 
Representatives. In this case, the top three 
candidates (those with the most votes) would be 
voted upon by the House, with each state casting 
one vote and the winner would become the 
President. The same process would be carried 
out for the Vice President in the Senate, meaning 
that it is possible the conjoined ticket would be 
split between members of two opposing parties.  
 
190. 
Q. Can a candidate lose the popular vote and still 
win the Electoral College, making them 
President? 
A. Yes, it has happened on a number of occasions.  


===== PAGE 54 =====
 
191. 
Q. Should the Electoral College be abolished if it’s 
possible that the candidate with the most 
popular votes not be elected? 
A. No, because the Electoral College ensures that 
all States – and not just those with large 
population centers in metropolitan or urban 
areas – are important to the electoral process. 
Without the Electoral College, less populous and 
more rural states would be ignored and not 
represented. Furthermore, this nation was not 
set up as a Democracy, but as a Republic, and the 
Electoral College preserves the spirit and values 
of a Republic.  
 
192. 
Q. Who is qualified to be President of the United 
States? 
A. According to the Constitution, only those 
meeting the qualifications of Citizenship from 
birth, who are 35 years of age or older, and have 
actually been continuously residing in the United 
States for fourteen or more years may be 
President.  
 
193. 
Q. How long may one serve as President? 
A. A Presidential term is four years, and no 
person shall be elected to the office more than 
twice, and no person who had been appointed 
President (to replace a President who had been 
previously elected, but unable to serve his full 
term) for more than two years shall be elected 


===== PAGE 55 =====
more than once. In theory it would be possible 
for someone to serve almost ten years, if they 
were elected for two additional terms after 
serving a two year mid term appointment. 
 
194. 
Q. How is the Vice President chosen? 
A. Originally, electors could vote for one of two 
candidates for President and the candidate with 
the second highest vote tally would become Vice 
President. Since the 12th Amendment, however, 
electors could vote for both President and Vice 
President separately. Seeing that a states 
electors always vote for their party’s presidential 
candidate, it is nearly certain that they will vote 
for the party’s vice presidential candidate as 
well. (see next question) 
 
195. 
Q. Must electors vote for Presidents and Vice 
Presidents of the same party? 
A. There is nothing in the Constitution or Federal 
Law that would prevent an elector from voting 
for a President from one party and a Vice 
President from another. However, many state 
election rules dictate that electors vote for a 
unified “ticket” or “slate” of Presidential and Vice 
Presidential candidates.  
 
196. 
Q. Are there any limits on who may serve 
together as President and Vice President? 
A. The Constitution forbids electors from voting 
for a President and a Vice President from the 


===== PAGE 56 =====
same state, for fear that one state may become 
too powerful in the Union of States.  
 
197. 
Q. If the President should die, be removed from 
office, or resign, who shall carry out his duties of 
office? 
A. The Vice President shall carry out his duties of 
office.  
 
198. 
Q. If the Vice President, now serving as the 
President, shall be removed from office or resign, 
who shall carry out his duties of office? 
A. The Speaker of the House shall become the 
President in this case. If he should die, leave or 
be removed from office, the Senate president pro 
tempore shall serve. From there, there is a line of 
succession to cabinet members including the 
Secretary of State, Secretary of the Treasury, 
Secretary of Defense and so on.  
 
199. 
Q. May the President be paid for serving in his 
office? 
A. The President may receive a salary, as set by 
Congress.  
 
200. 
Q. May the President receive money from any 
foreign government?  
A. No, the President may not receive any money 
from any foreign government or receive any 
exorbitant gifts or honorariums.  
 


===== PAGE 57 =====
201. 
Q. May the President receive money from any 
State government?  
A. No, the President may not receive money from 
any State government, lest he favor one State 
over another.  
 
202. 
Q. Does the President take an oath before taking 
office?  
A. Yes.  
 
203. 
Q. What is the Presidential oath of office? 
A. It is these words, “I do solemnly swear, that I 
will faithfully execute the office of President of the 
United States and will, to the best of my ability, 
preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution of 
the United States.” By tradition, Presidents have 
often included at the end, “So help me God.”  
 
204. 
Q. What are the powers belonging to the 
President?  
A. He is the Commander in Chief of all the Armed 
Services; every officer of all branches, from the 
highest to the lowest, is obliged to obey his 
orders.  
 
205. 
Q. Are the officers of the militia obliged to obey 
them?  
A. Officers of the militia are obliged to obey the 
Commander in Chief, unless such orders are 
themselves unconstitutional or if he has himself, 
become an enemy of the United States.  


===== PAGE 58 =====
 
206. 
Q. Has he any other powers?  
A. Yes, he may grant pardons for crimes.  
 
207. 
Q. What is a pardon? 
A. A pardon is the delivering of a condemned 
person from the consequences or penalty of his 
offense.  
 
208. 
Q. May the President do this for all crimes? 
A. Yes, although he cannot undo the consequence 
of impeachment.  
 
209. 
Q. Does the President possess powers to enter 
into treaties with other nations? 
A. The President may make treaties with other 
nations on behalf of the United States.  
 
210. 
Q. Is there any limit to the power of the President 
to make treaties?  
A. The power of making treaties is so great that 
the Constitution will entrust it to no one man. 
Even the President cannot make a treaty without 
the consent of the Senate of the United States; 
nor is it sufficient that a simple majority of the 
Senate agree to it; two thirds, that is, a super 
majority of all the Senators who are present 
when the vote is taken, must agree to any treaty 
before it is binding on the United States.  
211. 
Q. Has the President any power over other 
offices and positions in the f ederal government? 


===== PAGE 59 =====
A. Yes, he has the powers of nomination and 
appointment.  
 
212. 
Q. What are the powers of nomination and 
appointment? 
A. When persons are to be employed to perform 
the duties of certain influential public offices, 
none can be eligible but those whom the 
President first nominates; that is, whom he 
proposes to the Senate, and whom the Senate 
consents to have so employed: and when the 
Senate has given this consent, the persons 
cannot act in their office until they receive 
orders to do so from the President; such an order 
is called their appointment, and when put in 
writing it is called their commission.  
 
213. 
Q. What  sort of officers are appointed in this 
matter? 
A. Ambassadors and foreign Ministers, consuls, 
judges of the Supreme Court and federal 
districts, and all other officers of the United 
States, except those who are expressly ordered 
by the Constitution to be appointed by some 
person or body other than the President.  
 
214. 
Q. May the President appoint any officer without 
the consent of the Senate? 
A. Yes, if Congress makes a law giving him the 
power to do so.  
 


===== PAGE 60 =====
215. 
Q. What are the regular duties of the President? 
A. The President must from time to time report 
to Congress concerning the state and affairs of 
the nation.  
 
216. 
Q. Does he know what is the state of the nation 
better than Congress? 
A. Yes; his office is such that he is better situated 
for knowing it. Members of Congress reside in 
and represent only one State, but the President 
occupies a position of national authority. It is the 
duty of all officers below him, to submit reports 
of the various affairs in which they are 
employed, to one or other of the Heads of 
Departments, and these lay all the information 
and intelligence they thus obtain, before the 
President as resources to direct and assist him in 
the many and great duties he has to perform. He 
is, therefore, of all other persons, best 
acquainted with the general concerns of the 
nation.  
 
217. 
Q. When does he lay this information before 
Congress? 
A. After a first introductory address at the 
beginning of his term, he makes a full statement 
of it, usually on an annual basis, when they meet 
together in a joint session of congress, in what is 
usually called the President’s Speech or “the 
State of the Union Address.” He also submits to 
each body of congress particular information, as 


===== PAGE 61 =====
such information becomes available and 
relevant. 
 
218. 
Q. Suppose Congress wishes to know from the 
President something which he has not told them 
in his speech or messages, may they call upon 
him to communicate it? 
A. Yes, and if he does not think that the public 
good requires it to be kept secret, he always 
answers the call, and gives them the knowledge 
they requested, if he can do so.  
 
219. 
Q. Does he do more than communicate 
information to the Congress? 
A. Yes; it is his duty also to recommend to them 
such actions as he believes will be for the 
advantage of the nation.  
 
220. 
Q. Are they obliged to do as he wishes? 
A. No. They are to give careful and respectful 
attention to his recommendations and his 
reasons for them, but they are at full liberty to 
follow their own judgment in all cases.  
 
221. 
Q. Is it desirable that the Congress should always 
comply with the advice of the President? 
222. 
A. No; for then his advice would, in time, come to 
have the authority of a command; it would be the 
President and not Congress who was legislating 
our laws; and the liberty of the country would be 
in the greatest danger. There is no more 


===== PAGE 62 =====
dangerous despot than one who can enforce his 
will, and yet preserve the apparent forms of a 
free government. Augustus Caesar ruled the 
whole Roman Empire with absolute sway, yet 
did everything by the resolve of the Senate, 
giving the appearance that Rome was free.  
 
223. 
Q. Suppose some very important matter should 
arise while Congress is adjourned, can the 
President call them together? 
A. Yes. He can call either both houses, or only 
one. If any law is to be made, both houses are 
required. if only a treaty or an appointment is to 
be made, the Senate only need be assembled.  
 
224. 
Q. If when both Houses are in session, they 
should find themselves unable to agree about the 
time at which they will adjourn (that is, cease to 
meet and go into recess) can the President end 
their dispute? 
A. Yes, by adjourning both Houses.  
 
225. 
Q. In that case, when are they to reconvene? 
A. At any time the President declares, once he 
has adjourned them.  
 
226. 
Q. What are the duties required of the President 
with regard to foreign heads of state?  
A. He must receive all ambassadors and foreign 
ministers; that is, persons sent by other nations 


===== PAGE 63 =====
to make treaties with us, or to reside here as 
representatives of their own government.  
 
227. 
Q. Has he any great overriding duty? 
A. Yes, he has one great, general, and constant 
duty in which all this power is put at his 
command, it is to take care that the laws shall be 
faithfully executed and enforced; that is, that 
whatever Congress orders shall be done, and 
that whoever disobeys their laws shall be 
punished.  
 
228. 
Q. May he be punished himself? 
A. Every civil officer of the United States may be 
impeached by the House of Representatives, 
tried before the Senate, and, if found guilty, may 
be turned out of office. The crimes for which this 
is done are chiefly treason and bribery. Treason 
is making war against the United States or 
providing aid and comfort to her enemies, in an 
endeavor to resist or overturn the government. 
Bribery refers to the unlawful receiving of 
money or assets by an officer of the government, 
including the President, in return for engaging in 
and or neglecting some function of his office.  
 
229. 
Q. Can there be no bribery but by means of 
money? 
A. Yes; bribes may be offered in various forms. 
Any benefit or advantage received by an officer 
of the government, including the President, for a 


===== PAGE 64 =====
constitutionally improper end is considered a 
bribe.  
 
230. 
Q. What are we to understand by a Court? 
A. A court is a legal institution wherein a duly 
constituted Judge sits to hear and determine 
disputes, or cases according to the law. A 
courthouse with courtrooms are the locales 
wherein this usually takes place. 
 
231. 
Q. Are courts necessary? 
A. Certainly. Wherever laws are made and are to 
be enforced, there must be some mechanism of 
determining when and by whom they have been 
disobeyed, and of inflicting punishment upon 
those who disobey them. This is the use of a 
Court and of a Judge. When a citizen claims that 
another citizen has broken the law, either to his 
own injury, or to the injury of the public, he may 
compel that person to appear before a Judge and 
have it determined by witnesses whether the 
defendant has broken any laws or not. If it is 
adjudicated that he has, he is forced to suffer 
such penalties and punishments as the law 
directs.  
 
232. 
Q. Are there Courts in every State of the United 
States? 
A. Yes. Each State appoints Judges of its own to 
see that its state laws are enforced.  
 


===== PAGE 65 =====
233. 
Q. Are there also other Courts belonging to no 
particular State but to the United States? 
A. Yes.  
 
234. 
Q. Are all these Courts equal, or is one superior 
to another? 
A. They are not all equal but in each State, some 
of the State Courts are set over others; and so it 
is with the Courts of the United States.  
 
235. 
Q. Why are they not all equal? 
A. Some are set over others, in order that if one 
makes any mistake it may be corrected by the 
court above it. When a Citizen claims he has been 
wronged in a lower court, he may take his cause 
to a higher one; this is called an appeal. If in this 
higher Court, he still is not satisfied with the 
ruling, he may appeal to a still higher court , until 
he has reached the highest Court in his own 
State.  
 
236. 
Q. Can he take his cause from the State Courts to 
the Courts of the United States?  
A. No, not unless his complaint is related to a law 
made by a State, which he supposes to be 
contrary to the Constitution of the United States. 
That matter can be settled only by the Supreme 
Court of the United States.  
 
237. 
Q. Suppose his complaint is in regard to a law of 
the United States and not a State law? 


===== PAGE 66 =====
A. He must in this case go at once to the Courts of 
the United States.  
 
238. 
Q. Which courts are these? 
A. They consist of one Supreme Court (the 
highest of all), and of such lower federal courts, 
as Congress may from time to time establish.  
 
239. 
Q. Has Congress established such courts? 
A. Yes, it has, which are called Circuit or 
Appellate Courts of the United Stats; and others, 
below these, which are called District Courts of 
the United States.  
 
240. 
Q. What Judges sit on the Circuit or Appellate 
Courts of the United States? 
A. The thirteen U.S. Appellate courts are presided 
over by a panel of judges ranging from six to 
twenty-nine depending on the circuit, though 
usually a panel of three decides an individual 
appeal. 
 
241. 
Q. What Judges sit in the District Courts of the 
United States? 
A. There are 94 federal judicial districts in the 
United States court system presided over by 
hundreds of district judges, though each district 
must have at least one federal judge appointed 
by the President for life.  
 


===== PAGE 67 =====
242. 
Q. What kind of cases are tried in the Courts of 
the United States? 
A. A case must be tried in federal court when 
there is a dispute concerning the true United 
States constitutionality of a lower courts 
decision. 
 
243. 
Q. Are there other cases to be tried in the Courts 
of the United States? 
A. All cases under the federal laws of the United 
States. A federal court cannot adjudicate a case of 
state law unless that law itself or the application 
thereof is itself being challenged as contrary to 
the Constitution of the United States. 
 
244. 
Q. Any others? 
A. Yes, all which depend upon treaties between 
the United States and other nations. All in which 
Ambassadors or other public Ministers, or 
Consuls, sent to the United States by other 
governments, are parties concerned. All causes 
which concern the commandeering  or detaining 
of ships at sea, and all which concern crimes 
committed at sea, or in harbors, or rivers, or in 
forts and doc-yards, belonging to the United 
States.  
 
245. 
Q. What other cases are tried in the Courts? 
A. All disputes in which the United States is a 
party; all disputes between one State and 
another State; all in which one of the States files 


===== PAGE 68 =====
suit against any person that is the Citizen of 
another State; all in which one of the States files 
suit against any person that is the Citizen of 
another of the States; all in which a Citizen of one 
State files suit against a Citizen of another State; 
all in which Citizens of one and the same State 
lay claim to land under grants of a different 
State; all in which one of the States files suit 
against a Citizen of a foreign country; and all in 
which Citizens of the United States, and Citizens 
of any other country file suit against each other. 
But not where Citizens of one State files suit 
against another State; or where Citizens or 
subjects of a foreign State file suit against one of 
the States of the Union.  
 
246. 
Q. Must all cases of these several kinds be filed in 
one of the inferior courts of the United States 
first, or may any of them be commenced at once 
in the Supreme Court? 
A. All cases which have to do with ambassadors, 
public ministers, and consuls; and all those in 
which one of the States is a party, may be filed 
directly to the Supreme Court; the others, after 
being ajudicated in the inferior Courts of the 
United States, may be removed to the Supreme 
Court by an appeal; but this is submitted to the 
regulation of Congress, who may determine by 
law when it may be done, and in what manner.  
 


===== PAGE 69 =====
247. 
Q. How are the Judges of the Courts of the United 
States appointed? 
A. By the President, with the advice and consent 
of the Senate.  
 
248. 
Q. How long do they remain in office? 
A.  A federal presidential judicial appointment is 
for life or until the justice resigns or is removed 
by due process for some form of corruption.  
 
249. 
Q. Why are not Judges elected from time to time, 
like Members of the House of Representatives 
and Senators? And why may they not be 
removed from their offices unless they are 
proved to be guilty of great offenses?  
A. If Judges held their benches at the mere good 
pleasure of the people, they would be greatly 
tempted to act in a partial and improper manner 
in order to please those who elected them to 
office, and to keep their favor; but when they 
know that no man or number of men can remove 
them so long as they do their duty, they are more 
apt to administer justice without fear and with 
an equal regard for all who ask it.  
 
250. 
Q. Why should not Legislators hold their office in 
the same way? 
A. Because they make the laws, while Judges only 
explain and apply them; it would be very 
dangerous to liberty to give our law makers 
power for life; they require restraint lest they 


===== PAGE 70 =====
should become our tyrants; therefore their term 
in office is limited, so that if the people deem 
them unwise or unfaithful, they may refuse them 
that office again.  
 
251. 
Q. How do the Courts determine when laws have 
been disobeyed and determine their 
punishment? 
A. When a person is charged with having acted 
illegally to his neighbor, or to the State, whether 
he is guilty of the charge or not is determined a 
citizen Jury of his peers.  
 
252. 
Q. What is a Jury? 
A. A jury is a company of Citizens, chosen by lot, 
and who have no personal interest in the matter, 
who hear both the evidence brought against the 
accused, and that for his defense, who through 
deliberation among themselves seek to agree 
whether the accusation has been proven beyond 
a reasonable doubt or not. When they declare 
this agreement in opinion, it is called their 
verdict; and according to this, the case is 
decided.  
 
253. 
Q. Is this a wise regulation.  
A. Certainly. The trial by jury is a most precious 
privilege as it secures to every man a fair 
hearing, and is the best safe-guard of his liberty, 
property and life; all which might be taken from 
him by a partial or corrupt Judge if that officer 


===== PAGE 71 =====
alone were allowed to decide on the guilt or 
innocence of those who are tried before him.  
 
254. 
Q. Does a Jury decide in civil suits as well as in 
criminal prosecutions?  
A. Depending on the case, a jury can decide in 
both. 
 
255. 
Q. May an accused person be tried in a different 
State from that where the criminal act was 
committed?  
A. No.  
 
256. 
Q. Suppose the act was committed at sea, or in 
some other place not within any one of the 
States, her territories or possessions. Where is 
such a trial held? 
A. Where Congress shall have appointed by law.  
 
257. 
Q. Ought all the public acts of a State and its 
courts and officers be recorded in writing? 
A. Certainly; this must be done in order to 
preserve a remembrance of them and for those 
affected to show proof of them and if injured, to 
obtain redress.  
 
258. 
Q. When such a record is made in one of the 
states, and a copy of it duly proved and given, 
must that record be received as proof by all the 
other States? 


===== PAGE 72 =====
A. Yes, but Congress may determine by law in 
what manner the record shall be proved for that 
purpose.  
 
259. 
Q. When a Citizen of one State travels to any 
other State of the Union, may he be treated as if 
he were a foreigner? That is, may any difference 
be made between his privileges and those of the 
Citizens of that State? 
A. No. He shall enjoy every privilege enjoyed by 
the citizens of that state.  
 
260. 
Q. If a person charged with a crime in one State, 
shall flee from justice into the bounds of another 
State is he safe from pursuit and trial? 
A. No. If the Governor of the State where the 
crime was committed applies to the Governor of 
the State where he has taken refuge, the latter 
shall cause him to be delivered to the state in 
which the offense is alleged. This is called 
extradition.  
 
261. 
Q. How many States were there which revolted 
from Great Britain at the Revolution?  
A. Thirteen.  
 
262. 
Q. Did they all agree to the Federal Constitution 
at the time it went into operation? 
A. Not all, but the rest came in soon after.   
 


===== PAGE 73 =====
263. 
Q. Was it then expected that other future States 
would be formed andjoin the Union? 
A. Yes, and provision was made for admitting 
them.  
 
264. 
Q. By whom were they to be admitted? 
A. By Congress.  
 
265. 
Q. Is their number limited? 
A. No.  
 
266. 
Q. Has any State the right to set up a monarchical 
form of government for itself, that is a 
government where the supreme power is in the 
hands of a king? 
A. No. At the time of our nation’s founding the 
colonies were all individual republics. The new 
government they formed for the union of these 
republics was itself a representative republican 
model, which would then be enacted in any 
additional states which would join this union in 
the future.  
 
267. 
Q. Who is to see that this state of affairs is 
maintained? 
A. The Congress.  
 
268. 
Q. Does Congress secure any privilege to the 
different States? 
A. Yes. It must protect them from attack or 
invasion by a foreign enemy. This is one of the 


===== PAGE 74 =====
most important benefits of our Union; each State 
has the protection of the whole.  
 
269. 
Q. The majority of the people of any State may by 
due process certainly alter its laws, provided 
they do not violate the Constitution; but may the 
Constitution itself be altered?  
A. Yes. The Constitution being nothing more than 
an expression of the will of the people of the 
United States, is at all times within their own 
power, and they may change it as they see fit, but 
it ought not to be changed or amended until it is 
very clearly shown to be the desire of the people.  
 
270. 
Q. How is an amendment to the Constitution 
shown to be the will of the people? 
A. When two thirds (a super majority) of the 
members of both the Senate and the House of 
Representatives shall agree by a vote that an 
alteration would be proper, they may state such 
an alteration and propose it to be considered by 
the people of all the States. The alteration must 
then be considered by the Legislature of each of 
the States, or by a Convention in each State 
(which is a meeting of persons chosen by the 
people for this particular purpose); and if three 
fourths of the States agree to the amendment, it 
then becomes a part of the Constitution.  
 
271. 
Q. What is the supreme law of the United States? 


===== PAGE 75 =====
A. The Constitution itself is supreme; and all laws 
and treaties made by Congress and the 
President, in conformity with it, are superior to 
any law made by one of the States, so that if a law 
of a State contradicts a law of Congress, the State 
law is of no force, and the United States law 
alone must be obeyed.  
 
272. 
Q. Is there any recourse for the State, if the 
Courts are misinterpreting the Constitution or if 
laws are being enforced (or not enforced) 
despotically or prejudicially?  
A. Yes, the Doctrine of the Lesser Magistrate 
demands that all elected offices – even smaller 
State or local magistrates – must defend the 
Constitution of the United States. Within their 
means and ability, they are able to resist tyranny 
by keeping their own oath to the Constitution.  
 
273. 
Q. What is the Doctrine of the Lesser Magistrate? 
A.  The Doctrine of the Lesser Magistrate teaches 
that when the superior or higher ranking civil 
authority makes unconstitutional or immoral 
policies, the lower or lesser ranking civil 
authority has both a right and duty to refuse 
obedience to that superior authority. If 
necessary, the lesser authorities may even 
actively resist the higher authority in keeping 
with their oath of office.  
 


===== PAGE 76 =====
274. 
Q. What security do we have that the 
Constitution will be followed? 
A. The President, members of Congress, the 
members of State Legislatures,  all public officers 
of the United States and each of the States takes 
an oath of office promising to uphold the 
Constitution. Each branch of government 
provides a check and balance for the others, and 
both lesser and greater magistrates check and 
balance each other.  
 
275. 
Q. Has the Constitution ever been altered? 
A. Yes. Through the itself constitutional 
amendment process. 
 
276. 
Q. How many times has the Constitution been 
amended? 
A. There have been twenty seven amendments to 
the constitution.  
 
277. 
Q. What is the subject of the First Amendment?  
278. 
A. The subject of the First Amendment is the 
right to the free practice of religion.  
 
279. 
Q. What does this mean? 
A. This means that every man has the right to 
observe his religion according to his conscience, 
without being called to account for his opinions 
or punished for them by any governing 
authority, so long as he does not infringe upon 
the explicit Constitutional rights of others.  


===== PAGE 77 =====
 
280. 
Q. Is this the same as freedom of worship? 
A. In no wise. Freedom of worship is implied in 
freedom of religion, but freedom of religion is far 
broader. Worship may be confined to certain 
times and locations, but a man can observe his 
religion every day of his life and every place he 
may go. The right to conscience is a freedom of 
religion far greater than just the freedom of 
worship.  
 
281. 
Q. Is this a sacred right, which ought to be 
guarded with the greatest care? 
A. Certainly. God alone is the Judge of our 
religious belief and service, and no man has the 
right to infringe upon it, so long as it does not 
lead us to infringe upon the Constitutional rights 
of others.  
 
282. 
Q. How does the first Constitutional amendment 
address this subject? 
A. Congress is forbidden from making any law 
respecting the establishment of religion; that is, 
laws to establishing a particular denomination or 
religion, or forbidding the free exercise of 
religious conviction according to individual 
conscience.  
 
283. 
Q. May the government or her officials recognize 
God or any religion?  
A. There is no the Constitutional prohibition of 


===== PAGE 78 =====
the government as a whole or any member of 
any governmental office from recognizing deity 
or religion, so long as they are neither 
establishing nor hindering religion by law.  
 
284. 
Q. Was any other subject introduced in this same 
amendment?  
A. Yes; the freedom of speech and the freedom of 
the press.  
 
285. 
Q. What do these entail? 
A. In a free country under our form of 
government, every Citizen has the right to 
express his opinions of the character and 
conduct of our rulers and the laws they enact. 
For our government to forbid or punish this, 
would be extremely dangerous to our liberty. 
 
If officials chosen by their fellow Citizens to rule 
the State, rule in a foolish or wicked manner, it 
ought to be made known, that such corrupt 
officials may be speedily turned out of office. If 
however the citizens are forbidden to find fault 
with them without danger of punishment, the 
wrongful conduct of such officials would never 
be exposed, and they might continue in power to 
the great injury of us all. The right to speak our 
opinions is the freedom of speech; and the right 
to print them, and publish them for the benefit of 
others is the freedom of the press.  
 


===== PAGE 79 =====
286. 
Q. How ought the press be defined?  
A. The press is defined as any institution, 
organization or individual which publishes 
positions or opinions in or on any medium, 
whether it be paper, recorded audio or video, or 
any other electronic format.  
 
287. 
Q. May the press be in any way disqualified, so as 
to limit it ‘s voice or distribution to certain 
publications or organizations? 
A. No, the First Amendment is promised to the 
People, and anyone wishing to share an idea or 
opinion may publish it according to the principle 
of the freedom of the press.  
 
288. 
Q. May someone be punished if what they speak 
is injurious to another? 
A. Yes, if it can be proven in court that what has 
been alleged is false and resulting injury is 
demonstrable, this is called libel. Personal 
denigration of the character of another if proven 
true is not libelous and therefor not illegal.  
 
289. 
Q. If the people shall be of the opinion that any of 
the acts of their rulers have been corrupt, may 
they meet together to petition, that is publicly to 
seek that these acts be addressed? 
A. Yes, if they meet peaceably; but if they meet in 
a riotous or otherwise dangrous manner causing 
injury to persons or damage to property, then 
they ought to be prosecuted.  


===== PAGE 80 =====
 
290. 
Q. May they meet bearing arms? 
A. Yes; the right to keep and bear arms is one 
which belongs to the Citizens at all times; but 
arms must not be used except to support the rule 
of law or to defend against an enemy or resist 
tyranny.  
 
291. 
Q. Which Amendment secures the right to keep 
and bear arms?  
A. The Second Amendment.  
 
292. 
Q. To whom does the Second Amendment secure 
this right? 
A. To private Citizens, who comprise a militia.  
 
293. 
Q. Is a militia the same as an army?  
A. No. A militia is comprised of civilians only. The 
army is comprised of regular soldiers.  
 
294. 
Q. Who is a member of the militia? 
A. All private Citizens comprise the militia.  
 
295. 
Q. May the Federal Government make any laws 
regarding the right of Citizens to bear arms? 
A. No. Federal Laws regulating the ownership, 
transport, use or carry of private arms are 
unconstitutional.  
 
296. 
Q. What is the primary intent of the Second 
Amendment? 


===== PAGE 81 =====
A. The primary intent of the Second Amendment 
is to ensure that a well-armed Citizenry can 
provide the ultimate check and balance against 
governmental tyranny.  
 
297. 
Q. What is the Third Amendment?  
A. The Third Amendment commands that 
soldiers may not be quartered In the homes of 
Citizens without their consent. It places ultimate 
control of private property in the hands of the 
Citizenry, rather than in the hands of the 
government.  
 
298. 
Q. Does the Third Amendment apply to Civilian 
Law enforcement?  
A. The Third Amendment applies particularly to 
non-Civilian military personnel. However, no 
Citizen’s private property rights should be 
infringed upon by another, even by law 
enforcement.  
 
299. 
Q. What is the Fourth Amendment? 
A. The Fourth Amendment protects Citizens 
against searches of persons or their property 
without a legal warrant.  
 
300. 
Q. What are the requirements in obtaining a 
warrant in order to legally search a Citizen’s 
person or property? 
A. Warrants must be issued by a court, upon 
evidence of “probable cause” (that a crime has 


===== PAGE 82 =====
been committed by the individual) as provided 
by law enforcement.  
 
301. 
Q. May warrants be general? 
A. No, warrants must specify who is to be 
searched, what of their property is to be 
searched, and what in particular is being 
searched for.  
 
302. 
Q. How should warrants be delivered to Citizens? 
A. Because Citizens are presumed innocent until 
proven guilty, even if there is probable cause to 
issue a warrant, warrants should be delivered in 
a manner consistent with the Citizen’s rights.  
 
303. 
Q. Is the current trend of “no-knock warrants” 
Constitutional?  
A. Only in the most extreme of cases, when there 
is good and substantial reason to believe that 
Citizens may be violent or evasive, should law 
enforcement not be required to announce the 
warrant and enter private property with great 
care and respectful diligence.  
 
304. 
Q. What is the Fifth Amendment?  
A. The Fifth Amendment protects our Citizens 
against an injustice known as double jeopardy. 
An American Citizen may not be tried for the 
same offense twice. The fifth amendment also 
protects defendants from being forced to give 


===== PAGE 83 =====
self incriminating testimony during their own 
trial. 
 
305. 
Q. What else does the Fifth Amendment provide? 
A. The Fifth Amendment also prohibits anyone 
being deprived of life, liberty or property 
without due process of law. It also prohibits the 
taking of private property, even for important 
public causes, without fair compensation.  
 
306. 
Q. What does the Sixth Amendment provide?  
A.  The Sixth Amendment provides a fair and 
speedy trial to all Citizens accused of violating 
the law. It also requires a jury trial in the district 
and state where the alleged crime was 
committed.  
 
307. 
Q. What else does the Sixth Amendment provide? 
A. The sixth amendment also requires that 
defendants be given the right   to face their 
accusers, to be informed as to the charges and 
evidence against them, to present witnesses in 
their own defense, and to be provided with legal 
counsel.  
 
308. 
Q. What is the Seventh Amendment? 
A. The Seventh Amendment iterates the right to a 
trial by jury in civil cases, wherein the value 
under disputes is higher than twenty dollars.  
 


===== PAGE 84 =====
309. 
Q. What is the Eighth Amendment?  
A. The Eight Amendment prohibits excessive bail 
from being required in cases where release upon 
bail while awaiting trial is warranted, and it 
prohibits cruel or unusual punishments.  
 
310. 
Q. How might cruel and unusual punishment be 
properly defined? 
A. A cruel or unusual punishment is one that 
goes beyond fair restitution for crimes, or that 
which degrades the humanity of the convicted 
Citizen.  
 
311. 
Q. What does the Ninth Amendment declare?  
A. The Ninth Amendment declares that the Bill of 
Rights (the first Ten Amendments) does not 
include all the rights retained by the People.  
 
312. 
Q. What is the Tenth Amendment? 
A. The Tenth Amendment declares that any 
powers not explicitly delegated to the Federal 
Government in the Constitution (or prohibited to 
the States) are reserved either to the States or 
the People.  
 
313. 
Q. What is the major implication of the Tenth 
Amendment?  
A. The Tenth Amendment declares that the 
Constitution is not designed to limit the rights of 
Citizens or States, but to limit the power of the 
Federal Government.  


===== PAGE 85 =====
 
314. 
Q. If a power is not explicitly given to the Federal 
Government, may the Federal Government usurp 
such power?  
A. No. That would be tyranny.  
 
315. 
Q. What is the Eleventh Amendment?  
A. The Eleventh Amendment declares that 
Federal Courts can hear cases brought by private 
Citizens against the States and that the States are 
not immune from suits brought by Citizens of 
other States.  
 
316. 
Q. What is the Twelfth Amendment?  
A. The Twelfth Amendment was to revise the 
manner in which Presidents and Vice Presidents 
would be chosen in the Electoral College, as 
previously explained in the questions above 
treating the election of the Vice President.  
 
317. 
Q. What is the Thirteenth Amendment?  
A. The Thirteenth Amendment abolished and 
prohibited slavery in all its forms within the 
United States or its territories. 
 
318. 
Q. What is the Fourteenth Amendment?  
A. The Fourteenth Amendment declares that all 
naturalized persons under the jurisdiction of the 
United States are Citizens.  
 
319. 
Q. Why was the Fourteenth Amendment created? 


===== PAGE 86 =====
A. The Fourteenth Amendment was created to 
iterate that freed slaves, naturalized under the 
jurisdiction of the United States, were to be 
considered full Citizens,  and that the states must 
treat them accordingly. 
 
320. 
Q. What does “naturalized” mean?  
A. “Naturalized” refers to one who has met the 
requirements of Citizenship, but who was not 
born a Citizen.  
 
321. 
Q. What are the requirements of being a Citizen 
from birth? 
A. Those who have a parent who is a Citizen of 
the United States, regardless of the territory in 
which they are born, are Citizens from birth.  
 
322. 
Q. Are those who are born inside the boundaries 
of the United States but whose parents aren’t 
Citizens to be considered Citizens? 
A. No. Although current laws are often ignorant 
of the proper interpretation of this Amendment, 
those born within our borders whose parents 
are not Citizens (such as those children 
belonging to diplomats or non-Citizen legal or 
illegal immigrants) are not Citizens by birth, and 
must be naturalized in order to become Citizens.  
 
323. 
Q. What else does the Fourteenth Amendment 
require? 


===== PAGE 87 =====
A. It requires that the states to treat all Citizens 
equally under the law.  
 
324. 
Q. Does the Fourteenth Amendment require the 
States to treat all people as equal under the law? 
A. No. It requires the states to treat all Citizens – 
born or naturalized – equally under the law. 
Although all people are created by God and 
afforded basic human rights, the specific rights 
enunciated in the Constitution and its 
amendments are guaranteed to Citizens only.  
 
325. 
Q. Were the legal procedures prescribed in the 
Constitution itself, adhered to when ratifying the 
fourteenth amendment? 
A. The passage of the Fourteenth Amendment – 
as just as its provisions may be – is a stain upon 
the American system of Constitutional 
governance. It was not passed by three fourths of 
the States as required by the Constitution. Only 
21 states legally ratified it (it would have 
required 28), as certain states were under the 
duress of military occupation and its legislators 
appointed by foreign governments rather than 
by an election of the Citizen populous.  
 
326. 
Q. Should Citizens honor or acknowledge the 
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution? 
A. While the content of the Fourteenth 
Amendment is just and fair, no amendment 
should be acknowledged unless it is 


===== PAGE 88 =====
Constitutionally ratified, regardless of how long 
it has been seen to have been in force. It should 
be properly ratified by duly elected 
representatives of the People.  
 
327, 
Q. What is the Fifteenth Amendment?  
A. The Fifteenth Amendment guarantees the 
right to vote irrespective of race, color or 
position of servitude.  
 
328. 
Q. What is the Sixteenth Amendment?  
A. The Sixteenth Amendment allows the Federal 
Government to tax personal and private income, 
and did away with the requirement that taxes 
would be levied through a census only.  
 
329. 
Q. Was the Sixteenth Amendment properly 
ratified? 
A. There have been legitimate questions about 
the Constitutionality of the Sixteenth 
Amendment, but they have typically been 
rejected.  
 
330. 
Q. Is the Sixteenth Amendment a “good” 
amendment?  
A. No. In fact, an income tax that is progressive 
(in which the tax rate adjusts for income) is in 
violation of the equal protection clause of the 
Fourteenth Amendment, assuming that 
amendment’s viability. It is illogical that they can 
both be simultaneously enforced. Whereas there 


===== PAGE 89 =====
is a legitimate argument to be made in favor of a 
government right to tax goods, it is a dubious 
position that the government has the right to tax 
income.  
 
331. 
Q. Is their an inherent flaw in a tax upon income? 
A. The inherent flaw of income tax is that it does 
not treat all people equally, whereas a tax on 
goods does treat all people equally. An income 
tax allows for tyranny, as the government can 
choose to punish some people with higher taxes 
and reward others with lower taxes. It allows the 
government to use taxation as a weapon or a 
bribe upon its own Citizens.  
 
332. 
Q. What is the Seventeenth Amendment? 
A. The Seventeenth Amendment provided that a 
seat in the Senate would be won by public 
election as is the case with a seat in the House of 
Representatives. 
 
333. 
Q. Is their a flaw in the Seventeenth Amendment? 
A. The founders designed the House of 
Representatives to be the House of the People, 
popularly elected and promoting the welfare of 
the People. However, Senators were to promote 
the welfare of the State as a whole, which may 
differ from the welfare of individual citizens of 
that State. The popular election of Senators 
undermines this system of Republican 
government put in place by the founders.  


===== PAGE 90 =====
 
334. 
Q. What is the Eighteenth Amendment?  
A. The Eighteenth Amendment was a prohibition 
upon the sale of intoxicating beverages.  
 
335. 
Q. What was the inherent flaw of the Eighteenth 
Amendment? 
A. There are several. But first, enforcing the 
prohibition of alcohol is beyond the scope of the 
federal government, and laws should not be 
made that cannot be duly enforced. Secondly, the 
prohibition of alcohol is an infringement upon 
individual liberty.  
 
336. 
Q. What is the Nineteenth Amendment? 
A. The Nineteenth Amendment provided 
Woman’s suffrage.  That is, the right of women to 
vote.  
 
337. 
Q. What is the Twentieth Amendment?  
A. The Twentieth Amendment set the 
commencement of a Presidential and Vice 
Presidential term for noon on the January 20th 
following the election and for Senators and 
Representatives on January 3rd.  
 
338. 
Q. What is the Twenty First Amendment?  
A. The Twenty First Amendment repealed the 
Eighteenth Amendment, thus allowing the sale of 
intoxicating beverages.  
 


===== PAGE 91 =====
339. 
Q. What is the Twenty Second Amendment?  
A. The Twenty Second Amendment limits the 
President to two terms, or if they serve more 
than two years of an appointed term, to no more 
than one and a half terms. (see above) 
 
340. 
Q. What is the Twenty-Third Amendment?  
A. The 23rd Amendment gives residents of the 
District of Columbia the right to vote for 
representatives in the Electoral College.  
 
341. 
Q. What is the twenty fourth Amendment?  
A. The twenty fourth Amendment eliminated a 
“poll tax” which required payment in order for a 
Citizen to vote.  
 
342. 
Q. What is the Twenty Fifth Amendment? 
A. The Twenty Fifth  Amendment allows for the 
Vice President to become President if the 
President is unable to fulfill the duties of his 
office.  
 
343. 
Q. What is the Twenty Sixth Amendment?  
A. The Twenty Sixth Amendment made the age a 
Citizen can vote to be 18 years.  
 
344. 
Q. What is the Twenty Seventh Amendment?  
A. The Twenty Seventh Amendment stipulates 
that an increase in salary for Senators or 
Representatives cannot take effect during the 
term in which the increase was passed. 


===== PAGE 92 =====
 
PASTOR JD HALL 
 
JD Hall has been the pastor of Fellowship Baptist Church 
of Sidney, Montana since 2008. Hall received a B.A. in 
Christian Ministry from Williams Baptist University in 
Walnut Ridge, Arkansas, and an M.A. in History from 
Arkansas State University in Jonesboro, Arkansas.  
 
Hall is the founder and publisher of Pulpit & Pen, a 
ministry devoted to theological polemics. Pulpit & Pen 
receives as many as a million or more readers every 
month, He also hosts the Polemics Report podcast.  
 
Hall is also author of A Baptist Catechism for Family and 
Home Devotion, The Benedict Arnold Option, Embers of a 
Dying Fire, Reason With Me, and Help! Arminians Are 
Giving Me Nightmares Again! He is author of the 
upcoming book, Ungodly Mess: How Marxists Are 
Stealing Christianity in America.  
 
JD Hall is husband to his wife of 18 years, Mandy, and 
father to five children.  


